 After McDougal 's June 1914 commissioning , she sailed off the east coast and in the Caribbean . She was one of the U.S. destroyers sent out to rescue survivors from five victims of German submarine U @-@ 53 off the Lightship Nantucket in October 1916 , and carried 6 crewmen from a sunken Dutch cargo ship to Newport , Rhode Island . After the United States entered World War I in April 1917 , McDougal was part of the first U.S. destroyer squadron sent overseas . Patrolling the Irish Sea out of Queenstown , Ireland , McDougal made several unsuccessful attacks on U @-@ boats , and rescued survivors of ships sunk by the German craft . After a collision with a British cargo ship in February 1918 , McDougal was under repair until mid @-@ July , and afterwards , operated out of Brest , France . 

 Upon returning to the United States after the war , McDougal conducted operations with the destroyers of the Atlantic Fleet until August 1919 , when she was placed in reserve , still in commission . After a brief stint of operations in mid 1921 , she was placed in reserve until she was decommissioned at Philadelphia in May 1922 . In June 1924 , Ericsson was transferred to the United States Coast Guard to help enforce Prohibition as a part of the " Rum Patrol " . She operated under the name USCGC McDougal ( CG @-@ 6 ) until May 1933 , when she was returned to the Navy . In November she dropped her name to free it for a new destroyer of the same name , becoming known only as DD @-@ 54 . She was struck for the Naval Vessel Register in July 1934 sold for scrapping in August . 


 = = = USS Cushing ( DD @-@ 55 ) = = = 


 USS Cushing ( Destroyer No. 55 / DD @-@ 55 ) was laid down by the Fore River Shipbuilding Company of Quincy , Massachusetts , in September 1913 and launched in January 1915 . The ship was the second U.S. Navy vessel named in honor of William B. Cushing , a U.S. Navy officer best known for sinking the Confederate ironclad warship CSS Albemarle during the American Civil War . 

 After Cushing 's August 1915 commissioning , she sailed off the east coast and in the Caribbean . She was one of the U.S. destroyers sent out to rescue survivors from five victims of German submarine U @-@ 53 off the Lightship Nantucket in October 1916 . After the United States entered World War I in April 1917 , Cushing was sent overseas to patrol the Irish Sea out of Queenstown , Ireland . Cushing made several unsuccessful attacks on U @-@ boats , and rescued survivors of several ships sunk by the German craft . 

 Upon returning to the United States after the war , Cushing was placed in reserve in reduced commission . She was decommissioned at Philadelphia in August 1920 . She was struck for the Naval Vessel Register in January 1936 and was sold for scrapping in June . 


 = = = USS Ericsson ( DD @-@ 56 ) = = = 


 USS Ericsson ( Destroyer No. 56 / DD @-@ 56 ) was laid down by the New York Shipbuilding of Camden , New Jersey , in November 1913 and launched in August of the following year . The ship was the second U.S. Navy vessel named in honor of John Ericsson , the Swedish @-@ born builder of the ironclad warship USS Monitor during the American Civil War . 

 After Ericsson 's May 1916 commissioning , she sailed off the east coast and in the Caribbean . She was one of the U.S. destroyers sent out to rescue survivors from five victims of German submarine U @-@ 53 off the Lightship Nantucket in October 1916 , and carried 81 passengers from a sunken British ocean liner to Newport , Rhode Island . After the United States entered World War I in April 1917 , Ericsson was part of the first U.S. destroyer squadron sent overseas . Patrolling the Irish Sea out of Queenstown , Ireland , Ericsson made several unsuccessful attacks on U @-@ boats , and rescued survivors of several ships sunk by the German craft . 

 Upon returning to the United State after the war , Ericsson conducted operations with the destroyers of the Atlantic Fleet until August 1919 , when she was placed in reserve , still in commission . After a brief stint of operations in mid 1921 , she was placed in reserve until she was decommissioned at Philadelphia in June 1922 . In June 1924 , Ericsson was transferred to the United States Coast Guard to help enforce Prohibition as a part of the " Rum Patrol " . She operated under the name USCGC Ericsson ( CG @-@ 5 ) until May 1932 , when she was returned to the Navy . She was sold for scrap in August 1934 . 



 = Who Am I ( Casting Crowns song ) = 


 " Who Am I " is a song recorded by Christian rock band Casting Crowns . Written by Mark Hall and produced by Mark A. Miller and Steven Curtis Chapman , it was released on February 22 , 2004 , as the second single from the band 's 2003 self @-@ titled debut album . A pop rock and adult contemporary ballad , the song is based around the piano and utilizes orchestral sounds . Lyrically , the song is centered on worshiping God . The song received positive reviews from music critics upon its release , with several regarding it as one of the best songs on their debut album . 

 " Who Am I " received the awards for Song of the Year and Pop / Contemporary Recorded Song of the Year at the 36th GMA Dove Awards , and it was also nominated for Worship Song of the Year . It achieved success on Christian radio , topping the Billboard Hot Christian Songs and Hot Christian AC charts as well as simultaneously peaking atop the Radio & Records Christian AC , Christian CHR , and INSPO charts . It has been certified Gold by the Recording Industry Association of America ( RIAA ) , signifying sales of over 500 @,@ 000 digital downloads . Casting Crowns has performed the song in concert as well as at special events , and re @-@ recorded the song in 2013 for their acoustic album The Acoustic Sessions : Volume One . 


 = = Background and composition = = 


 According to Casting Crowns ' lead singer Mark Hall , the idea for " Who Am I " came while he was driving home with his wife and children one night . Hall , who was having personal worship time during the drive , recounts that he wondered " Who am I to think I can just call up to God whenever I want , from the middle of nowhere , and expect Him to hear me ? " Hall says " immediately I started thinking I 'm a new creation , I 'm more than a conqueror ... I 'm [ also ] grass , that is rises up and is gone in a day " . In an interview , he commented that " me being a conqueror is true , but at the same time I need to understand that my life is a vapor , and me being able to even pray to [ God ] is because of what he 's done for me " . " Who Am I " was produced by Mark A. Miller and Steven Curtis Chapman . It was recorded at Glow In The Dark Studio in Decatur , Georgia and Zoo Studio in Franklin , Tennessee , and it was engineered by Matt Goldman and Sam Hewitt . 

 " Who Am I " is a song with a length of five minutes and thirty @-@ five seconds . According to the sheet music published by Musicnotes.com , it is in set common time in the key of B major and has a tempo of 66 beats per minute . Mark Hall 's vocal range in the song spans from the low note of G ♯ 3 to the high note of F ♯ 3 . " Who Am I " has been described as a pop rock and adult contemporary ballad . Based around the piano and featuring orchestral sounds , it begins slowly before building up into a musical crescendo . Lyrically , the song is centered in praising God , relating a theme of nothingness without Christ . 


 = = Reception = = 


 " Who Am I " received mostly positive reviews from music critics . Andy Argyrakis of CCM Magazine described the song as a " standout " from the album . Tom Lennie of Cross Rhythms noted it as one of the best songs from their debut album . In 2007 , Andree Farias of Christianity Today described it as one of the many Casting Crowns songs that have become " beloved anthems of the Christian faith " . In 2013 , Roger Gelwicks described it as an " AC radio favorite " but felt it was " dated " . At the 36th GMA Dove Awards , " Who Am I " won the awards for Song of the Year and Pop / Contemporary Recorded Song of the Year ; It was also nominated for Worship Song of the Year . 

 " Who Am I " was released to Christian adult contemporary , Christian CHR , and Soft AC / Inspirational radio on January 22 , 2004 as the second single from the band 's debut album . It spent six weeks atop the Billboard Christian Songs songs chart and two weeks atop the Hot Christian AC chart . It also simultaneously topped the Radio & Records Christian AC , Christian CHR , and INSPO charts . In July 26 , 2011 , it was certified Gold by the Recording Industry Association of America ( RIAA ) , signifying sales of over 500 @,@ 000 digital downloads . 


 = = Live performances and other uses = = 


 On October 5 , 2003 at the band 's church in Atlanta , Casting Crowns performed " Who Am I " . This performance was included on their 2004 live album Live from Atlanta . The band performed the song on May 6 , 2004 at the Nationally Broadcast Concert of Prayer event , held at Daytona International Speedway in front of nearly 10 @,@ 000 people ; the band 's performance , along with the rest of those participating in the three @-@ hour event , was simulcast nationally on television , radio , and the internet . The band performed the song on October 27 , 2004 at the Pontiac Silverdome in Detroit , Michigan as part of a Bush @-@ Cheney ' 04 campaign rally . The event was attended by around 20 @,@ 000 people . 

 At a concert at the Giant Center in Hershey , Pennsylvania held on April 1 , 2005 , Casting Crowns performed it as the third song on their set list . On July 10 , 2005 at a concert at Seaholm High School in Ypsilanti , Michigan , Casting Crowns performed it as their third song in their set list . At a concert at Continental Airlines Arena in East Rutherford , New Jersey , Casting Crowns performed an acoustic version of the song . At a concert on November 12 , 2005 in Bethlehem , Pennsylvania 's Stabler Arena , Casting Crowns performed the song as the thirteenth song in their set . The band performed the song at a February 5 , 2010 concert at the Sprint Center in Kansas City , Missouri . In 2009 , the band was invited to perform in North Korea at the 2009 Spring Friendship Art Festival ; the band 's set list at the festival included a Korean @-@ language version of " Who Am I " . 

 " Who Am I " was included on the 2004 compilation album WOW Hits 2005 , the 2006 compilation album WOW Worship : Aqua , and the 2008 compilation album WOW Essentials , as well as the band 's 2004 live album Live from Atlanta . The band re @-@ recorded the song for their 2013 acoustic album The Acoustic Sessions : Volume One ; unlike the original , which featured Mark Hall on lead vocals , the acoustic version features Megan Garrett on lead vocals . 


 = = Credits and personnel = = 


 Credits taken from Allmusic . 


 = = Charts = = 



 = = = Certifications = = = 



 = = Release and radio history = = 




 = We 'll Always Have Paris ( Star Trek : The Next Generation ) = 


 " We 'll Always Have Paris " is the 24th episode of the first season of the American science fiction television series Star Trek : The Next Generation , first aired on May 2 , 1988 , in broadcast syndication . The story and script were both created by Deborah Dean Davis and Hannah Louise Shearer , and the episode was directed by Robert Becker . 

 Set in the 24th century , the series follows the adventures of the crew of the Starfleet starship Enterprise @-@ D. In this episode , the crew respond to a distress call from Dr. Paul Manheim ( Rod Loomis ) . While the crew must deal with the results of Manheim 's haywire experiments with time , Captain Picard ( Patrick Stewart ) must deal with his former love Jenice ( Michelle Phillips ) , who is also Manheim 's wife . 

 The story of the episode was influenced by the film Casablanca , and was affected by the timing of the 1988 Writers Guild of America strike . Because of the strike , the script was written in five days and it was only when it was filmed that it was discovered to be incomplete . Shearer was not happy with the result and felt that the on @-@ screen chemistry of Stewart and Phillips was lacking . Reviews of the episode have been mixed , with one reviewer summing it up by saying " there ’ s nothing I can point to at this episode and say is wrong , but it ’ s one of the more forgettable episodes . " 


 = = Plot = = 


 The Enterprise , along with other ships in the sector , experience a localized time @-@ distortion , and soon after receive a distress @-@ call from Dr. Paul Manheim in a nearby system . Commander Riker ( Jonathan Frakes ) recalls that Manheim was ejected from the Federation Science Institute for conducting unauthorized experiments . They find the distress signal coming from a facility on a planetoid surrounded by a force @-@ field . When they make contact with the facility , a woman requests help to save her husband , Dr. Manheim , and lowers the shields . 

 The two are brought aboard and while Dr. Crusher ( Gates McFadden ) tends to Dr. Manheim , who is having convulsions , Picard discovers his wife is Jenice , Picard 's former love from before he decided to join Starfleet . Jenice warns that her husband was working privately in his laboratory , but that she didn 't know what he was working on . She also alerts the crew to numerous security protocols that he has installed at the facilities . As the crew prepares to send an away @-@ team to investigate the laboratory , they experience more time distortions , described by Data ( Brent Spiner ) as " Manheim effects " . In one instance Picard , Riker and Data enter a turbolift only to see their past selves conversing outside of the lift . The crew find that they cannot complete a transporter beam to the facility due to the instabilities . 

 Dr. Manheim recovers long enough to explain that he was doing experiments involving time , gravity , and funnels to other universes , and suspects his last experiment is running out @-@ of @-@ hand . Manheim explains that he is trapped between two dimensions and Data determines that the experiment must be shut down during a time fluctuation or else it will simply grow larger . Manheim provides the crew with the correct coordinates to beam down to avoid the security fields . Picard admits to Jenice that he worried about losing her again after he left her in Paris , and vows to correct Dr. Manheim 's experiment . 

 As he is affected less by the distortions , Data is sent down alone and disables the remaining security measures before entering Manheim 's laboratory . He finds a column of energy emanating from a dimensional matrix , the source of the time distortions . Data , though briefly affected by the time distortions , is able to add anti @-@ matter to the matrix , causing the matrix to stabilize and halt the time distortions . Dr. Manheim fully recovers , and he and Jenice thank Picard and the crew for their help . Picard and Jenice use the holodeck to recreate one more encounter at a Paris café , before she returns with her husband to the planet . 


 = = Production = = 


 " We 'll Always Have Paris " is named in reference to the Humphrey Bogart and Ingrid Bergman film Casablanca . As well as the title of the episode and the love triangle in the story , the Blue Parrot Café from the film is directly mentioned by Captain Picard . Casablanca was also the basis for the earlier Star Trek : The Original Series novel The Entropy Effect , and would be so again in the Deep Space Nine episode " Profit and Loss " . 

 The story was originally pitched by Hannah Louise Shearer and Deborah Dean Davis , who were also given the job of developing the script . The writing of the episode suffered from the timing of the 1988 Writers Guild of America strike , with Shearer and Dean Davis completing the script in five days . The premise of the story was a combination of their idea of a story " about a professor whose work wasn 't appreciated and had to go off on his own " and that of Maurice Hurley who wanted a story with a time anomaly . The final draft was dated 22 February and featured numerous differences from the filmed version , including Jenice being called Laura , a number of different interactions for the crew , and Riker , Worf and Data all being involved in shutting down Manheim 's equipment . The script was finalised a week before the episode was filmed , but the writers strike caused further issues when it was discovered during filming that the scene where Data was to fix the time distortions hadn 't been completed . 

 Robert Legato and Rick Berman spent forty minutes on the telephone with Shearer during the strike . While she refused to write the lines during the strike , Berman suggested dialogue and Shearer would give opinions with Legato taking down handwritten notes . Legato decided on the directing notes himself , and used a whip pan shot instead of an effects shot to film the three Datas as director Robert Becker had never used effects shots previously . Shearer wasn 't happy with the final result , saying " we were writing the most romantic episode in the world " but that " it was toned down 75 % " . 

 Shearer later complained of a lack of chemistry between Michelle Phillips and Patrick Stewart , which Phillips blamed on the conflicted nature of the character in that she was committed to her husband but also wanted to see Picard once more . Phillips , a Star Trek fan , is better known for being a member of the 1960s group The Mamas & the Papas . Rod Loomis ' previous science fiction outing was in Bill and Ted 's Excellent Adventure as Sigmund Freud , and Lance Spellerberg would later return in " The Icarus Factor " where his transporter chief gained the name Ensign Herbert . The image of 24th century Paris was a matte painting which was re @-@ used in Star Trek VI : The Undiscovered Country where it was hung outside the office of the Federation president . 


 = = Reception = = 


 " We 'll Always Have Paris " aired in broadcast syndication during the week commencing May 5 , 1988 . It received Nielsen ratings of 9 @.@ 7 , reflecting the percentage of all households watching the episode during its timeslot . This was the same ratings received as the previous episode , " Skin of Evil " . 

 Several reviewers re @-@ watched the episode after the end of the series . Michelle Erica Green reviewed the episode on behalf of TrekNation in September 2007 , comparing certain elements of the episode to Casablanca and the series finale " All Good Things ... " . These included the ending where time distortions caused Data to be replicated three time in " We 'll Always Have Paris " compared to the similar situation with three Picards in " All Good Things ... " . Overall she thought that the episode was better than she recalled previously . Jamahl Epsicokhan at his website " Jammer 's Reviews " described the episode as too simple , especially the ending which he said was " they give Data a canister , which he sticks into a hall of mirrors ; problem solved " . 

 Zack Handlen , reviewing the episode for The A.V. Club in May 2010 , said that he enjoyed the " time blips " in the episode , but that he wasn 't a fan of the romance between Jenice and Picard . He also felt that there wasn 't much follow up on Manheim 's experiments and that he seemed to be left to cause a more serious accident in the future . Keith DeCandido watched the episode for Tor.com in July 2011 . He thought that Michele Phillips was " incredibly radiant " , and said , " there ’ s nothing I can point to at this episode and say is wrong , but it ’ s one of the more forgettable episodes " , giving it a score of four out of ten . 


 = = Home media release = = 


 The first home media release of " We 'll Always Have Paris " was on VHS cassette was on July 1 , 1992 in the United States and Canada . The episode was later included on the Star Trek : The Next Generation season one DVD box set , released in March 2002 , and was released as part of the season one Blu @-@ ray set on July 24 , 2012 . 



 = Burn = 


 A burn is a type of injury to skin , or other tissues , caused by heat , cold , electricity , chemicals , friction , or radiation . Most burns are due to heat from hot liquids , solids , or fire . Among women in many areas of the world the risk is related to the use of open cooking fires or unsafe cook stoves . Alcoholism and smoking are other risk factors . Burns can also occur as a result of self harm or violence between people . 

 Burns that affect only the superficial skin layers are known as superficial or first @-@ degree burns . They appear red without blisters and pain typically lasts around three days . When the injury extends into some of the underlying skin layer , it is a partial @-@ thickness or second @-@ degree burn . Blisters are frequently present and they are often very painful . Healing can require up to eight weeks and scarring may occur . In a full @-@ thickness or third @-@ degree burn , the injury extends to all layers of the skin . Often there is no pain and the burn area is stiff . Healing typically does not occur on its own . A fourth @-@ degree burn additionally involves injury to deeper tissues , such as muscle , tendons , or bone . The burn is often black and frequently leads to loss of the burned part . 

 Burns are generally preventable . Treatment depends on the severity of the burn . Superficial burns may be managed with little more than simple pain medication , while major burns may require prolonged treatment in specialized burn centers . Cooling with tap water may help pain and decrease damage ; however , prolonged cooling may result in low body temperature . Partial @-@ thickness burns may require cleaning with soap and water , followed by dressings . It is not clear how to manage blisters , but it is probably reasonable to leave them intact if small and drain them if large . Full @-@ thickness burns usually require surgical treatments , such as skin grafting . Extensive burns often require large amounts of intravenous fluid , due to capillary fluid leakage and tissue swelling . The most common complications of burns involve infection . Tetanus toxoid should be given if not up to date . 

 In 2013 , fire and heat resulted in 35 million injuries . This resulted in about 2 @.@ 9 million hospitalizations and 238 @,@ 000 dying . Most deaths due to burns occur in the developing world , particularly in Southeast Asia . While large burns can be fatal , treatments developed since 1960 have improved outcomes , especially in children and young adults . In the United States , approximately 96 % of those admitted to a burn center survive their injuries . Burns occur at similar frequencies in men and women . The long @-@ term outcome is related to the size of burn and the age of the person affected . 


 = = Signs and symptoms = = 


 The characteristics of a burn depend upon its depth . Superficial burns cause pain lasting two or three days , followed by peeling of the skin over the next few days . Individuals suffering from more severe burns may indicate discomfort or complain of feeling pressure rather than pain . Full @-@ thickness burns may be entirely insensitive to light touch or puncture . While superficial burns are typically red in color , severe burns may be pink , white or black . Burns around the mouth or singed hair inside the nose may indicate that burns to the airways have occurred , but these findings are not definitive . More worrisome signs include : shortness of breath , hoarseness , and stridor or wheezing . Itchiness is common during the healing process , occurring in up to 90 % of adults and nearly all children . Numbness or tingling may persist for a prolonged period of time after an electrical injury . Burns may also produce emotional and psychological distress . 


 = = Cause = = 


 Burns are caused by a variety of external sources classified as thermal ( heat @-@ related ) , chemical , electrical , and radiation . In the United States , the most common causes of burns are : fire or flame ( 44 % ) , scalds ( 33 % ) , hot objects ( 9 % ) , electricity ( 4 % ) , and chemicals ( 3 % ) . Most ( 69 % ) burn injuries occur at home or at work ( 9 % ) , and most are accidental , with 2 % due to assault by another , and 1 @-@ 2 % resulting from a suicide attempt . These sources can cause inhalation injury to the airway and / or lungs , occurring in about 6 % . 

 Burn injuries occur more commonly among the poor . Smoking is a risk factor , although alcohol use is not . Fire @-@ related burns are generally more common in colder climates . Specific risk factors in the developing world include cooking with open fires or on the floor as well as developmental disabilities in children and chronic diseases in adults . 


 = = = Thermal = = = 


 In the United States , fire and hot liquids are the most common causes of burns . Of house fires that result in death , smoking causes 25 % and heating devices cause 22 % . Almost half of injuries are due to efforts to fight a fire . Scalding is caused by hot liquids or gases and most commonly occurs from exposure to hot drinks , high temperature tap water in baths or showers , hot cooking oil , or steam . Scald injuries are most common in children under the age of five and , in the United States and Australia , this population makes up about two @-@ thirds of all burns . Contact with hot objects is the cause of about 20 @-@ 30 % of burns in children . Generally , scalds are first- or second @-@ degree burns , but third @-@ degree burns may also result , especially with prolonged contact . Fireworks are a common cause of burns during holiday seasons in many countries . This is a particular risk for adolescent males . 


 = = = Chemical = = = 


 Chemicals cause from 2 to 11 % of all burns and contribute to as many as 30 % of burn @-@ related deaths . Chemical burns can be caused by over 25 @,@ 000 substances , most of which are either a strong base ( 55 % ) or a strong acid ( 26 % ) . Most chemical burn deaths are secondary to ingestion . Common agents include : sulfuric acid as found in toilet cleaners , sodium hypochlorite as found in bleach , and halogenated hydrocarbons as found in paint remover , among others . Hydrofluoric acid can cause particularly deep burns that may not become symptomatic until some time after exposure . Formic acid may cause the breakdown of significant numbers of red blood cells . 


 = = = Electrical = = = 


 Electrical burns or injuries are classified as high voltage ( greater than or equal to 1000 volts ) , low voltage ( less than 1000 volts ) , or as flash burns secondary to an electric arc . The most common causes of electrical burns in children are electrical cords ( 60 % ) followed by electrical outlets ( 14 % ) . Lightning may also result in electrical burns . Risk factors for being struck include involvement in outdoor activities such as mountain climbing , golf and field sports , and working outside . Mortality from a lightning strike is about 10 % . 

 While electrical injuries primarily result in burns , they may also cause fractures or dislocations secondary to blunt force trauma or muscle contractions . In high voltage injuries , most damage may occur internally and thus the extent of the injury cannot be judged by examination of the skin alone . Contact with either low voltage or high voltage may produce cardiac arrhythmias or cardiac arrest . 


 = = = Radiation = = = 


 Radiation burns may be caused by protracted exposure to ultraviolet light ( such as from the sun , tanning booths or arc welding ) or from ionizing radiation ( such as from radiation therapy , X @-@ rays or radioactive fallout ) . Sun exposure is the most common cause of radiation burns and the most common cause of superficial burns overall . There is significant variation in how easily people sunburn based on their skin type . Skin effects from ionizing radiation depend on the amount of exposure to the area , with hair loss seen after 3 Gy , redness seen after 10 Gy , wet skin peeling after 20 Gy , and necrosis after 30 Gy . Redness , if it occurs , may not appear until some time after exposure . Radiation burns are treated the same as other burns . Microwave burns occur via thermal heating caused by the microwaves . While exposures as short as two seconds may cause injury , overall this is an uncommon occurrence . 


 = = = Non accidental = = = 


 In those hospitalized from scalds or fire burns , 3 – 10 % are from assault . Reasons include : child abuse , personal disputes , spousal abuse , elder abuse , and business disputes . An immersion injury or immersion scald may indicate child abuse . It is created when an extremity or the lower body ( buttock or perineum ) is held under the surface of hot water . It typically produces a sharp upper border and is often symmetrical . Other high @-@ risk signs of potential abuse include : circumferential burns , the absence of splash marks , a burn of uniform depth , and association with other signs of neglect or abuse . 

 Bride burning , a form of domestic violence , occurs in some cultures , such as India where women have been burned in revenge for what the husband or his family consider an inadequate dowry . In Pakistan , acid burns represent 13 % of intentional burns , and are frequently related to domestic violence . Self @-@ immolation ( setting oneself on fire ) is also used as a form of protest in various parts of the world . 


 = = Pathophysiology = = 


 At temperatures greater than 44 ° C ( 111 ° F ) , proteins begin losing their three @-@ dimensional shape and start breaking down . This results in cell and tissue damage . Many of the direct health effects of a burn are secondary to disruption in the normal functioning of the skin . They include disruption of the skin 's sensation , ability to prevent water loss through evaporation , and ability to control body temperature . Disruption of cell membranes causes cells to lose potassium to the spaces outside the cell and to take up water and sodium . 

 In large burns ( over 30 % of the total body surface area ) , there is a significant inflammatory response . This results in increased leakage of fluid from the capillaries , and subsequent tissue edema . This causes overall blood volume loss , with the remaining blood suffering significant plasma loss , making the blood more concentrated . Poor blood flow to organs such as the kidneys and gastrointestinal tract may result in renal failure and stomach ulcers . 

 Increased levels of catecholamines and cortisol can cause a hypermetabolic state that can last for years . This is associated with increased cardiac output , metabolism , a fast heart rate , and poor immune function . 


 = = Diagnosis = = 


